I was born in South Korea.
I read a lot and I was always drawing or
painting.
I really wasn't much of an outdoor kid.
[Music]
I'm not the girl who's ever dreamed of
being part of an international spiring
or whatever it is. 49year-old Christina
Chapman helped the North Korean
government avoid sanctions.
>> Conspiring in a scheme to defraud the
US.
>> Running what they called a laptop farm.
Christina Chapman's laptop farm alone
generated $17 million.
>> Computers started showing up at my
house. I had no clue.
>> Christina Chapman was conspiring with
North Koreans to infiltrate US
companies.
>> Did you know that you were working with
North Koreans?
>> I thought I had a job that was
legitimate. Unusual, but legitimate.
>> With the goal of creating revenue to
send to North Korea for their munitions
development.
There was something in particular about
her that sort of struck me as there's a
deeper story here.
>> I don't know what to do. I'm really
scared.
>> She had a hard life. She didn't quite
understand what she was getting into.
>> Look, Christina Chapman is lying.
>> She was hosting a very large amount of
laptops. We know what we're dealing with
here.
>> I don't think there's any question
Chapman was a major facilitator.
>> It's very upsetting. They're not in
handcuffs. She is. We know what you're
doing. Sooner or later, we're going to
catch you.
[Music]
Being born in South Korea is a huge part
of my identity.
Ever since I was a kid, I would put on
my mom's hanbo and dance around the
house.
And I've never lost the love for South
Korea or the fascination with it.
>> There are times that I know that I was
happy as a child, but there are a lot of
times when I know I felt
out of sync with the rest of my family.
When my mom was first diagnosed with
cancer, I didn't have a lot of people
around me. It was me and my dogs. I
wanted to get some sort of degree that
would allow me to make enough money to
support her.
While I was scrolling through Facebook
one day, I saw something about software
engineering and this particular boot
camp. The goal was to find a job as soon
as possible, preferably a remote job
because 2020 was one of the first marked
decline in my mom's health
and I wanted to be there for her.
Towards the end of the course, I had
gotten several different job offers and
then we went into co I shower at Planet
Fitness. Yeah, cuz we don't have running
water at home. Most of the job offers
went away with the exception of one. The
job offer came to me through LinkedIn
and basically said that they wanted me
to be the face for their company. I
would be the person in between them and
the clients. It was about building
websites, maybe doing database work, and
I need people that are better at coding
than I am cuz I am crap. We did one job
that way, and then at the end of 2020, I
started getting computers in the mail.
In the beginning, there were only three
or four laptops that arrived at my
house. Towards the end, I think I had
around 40 active laptops.
There were some computers that once I
set them up, I never touch them again.
Other computers I would have to connect
them every morning. Basically, plug them
in, open them up, turn them on.
The laptops I sent to different places
were all at the request of the guys that
I was working with. A couple of
computers went to the UAE, maybe one or
two to Pakistan, Eastern Europe,
possibly Nigeria, Egypt. I can't
remember all the places, but the
majority of them went to China. I know
that software engineering is an
international job, so it never felt
suspicious to me. And I guess I was so
desperate for a job at that point that I
didn't really ask too many questions.
[Music]
North Korea is a black hole. It's
isolated. It is completely cut off from
the rest of the world.
Coming out of the military doing a human
intelligence collection eventually
wanted to switch over to cyber
operations and noticed there wasn't
really a good grasp on things that were
North Korea focused. No one wants to
touch North Korea with a 10-ft pole. And
once you start getting in, you realize I
see why everyone was avoiding this. It's
less of a government and more of a
criminal enterprise.
Kim Jong-un came to power. He's a
millennial that leaned into tech.
He knew cyber was going to be the
endgame and really wanted to focus on
that high yield, lowcost return on
investment. And you can see that he's
building it. They're learning and
they're getting better.
[Applause]
[Music]
>> North Korea has been under very heavy
sanctions for a couple of decades and
they've come up with a variety of ways
to evade those sanctions. They've
basically adopted the stance of
international organized crime. This
started with things like making
methamphetamine in factories in North
Korea. Then they shifted to large-scale
digital bank heists. Then the latest
evolution is really this IT worker
scheme.
Thousands of North Korean students are
sort of pulled into this program where
you get trained in IT work and then they
have applied for and they've gotten a
job at an American company by pretending
to be American. Now then they have the
problem of they have to appear as if
they're actually American. They used
stolen or fake American identities.
They'd have AI built resumes and they'd
use those to get remote jobs. It's
staggering to see just some of these IDs
and some of these resumes that you can
off the bat realize that they're
fraudulent. Just simple Photoshop and
different types of AI generation whether
it be from the resume building to the
actual interview is working. These
companies thought they were hiring
Americans for these jobs. Names like
NBC, Universal, Mass Mutual Insurance
Company, Nike, Boeing, PaloAlto
Networks, which is a giant public cyber
security company. All of these companies
have at some point had a North Korean
working for them. Think of your third
party contractors. Think of your own
remote workforce at anyone's
organization. They're looking to land
those type of jobs to continue to get
that slow, steady drip of money coming
back into the regime to fund the regime,
weapons, domestic efforts, however they
want to use it. That's the scheme is
they collect salaries and it's worth
hundreds of millions of dollars, if not
billions of dollars a year.
[Music]
Christina's sort of function in the
network was as what's called a laptop
farmer.
Companies shipped work laptops to what
they thought were remote US employees,
but the computers are actually going to
American facilitators. They went to
Christina's house. She set up each
computer, install remote access software
like any desk, and then let the North
Koreans log in from overseas, making it
look like they were working from inside
the US.
They basically can't pull off this
scheme without these American
facilitators.
I did have what I would consider like an
office relationship with a lot of them.
Sometimes we would talk about holidays.
I knew which ones had girlfriends. They
would call me, "You're like our sister.
You're our friend. You're part of our
family."
>> Going to start taking care of my
clients. computer business.
>> I finally found the job that is perfect
for me, that will work with my schedule
and allow me to be home with my mom when
she needs me.
>> My first purchase first, there will be
more.
>> Initially, it was probably
$900 a month that I was making and then
all of a sudden I got like 10 or 11
computers all within a couple weeks
time. So, that went up to around 4,000.
Today is going to be a bit of an out
andabout day because I have a lot of
errands to run for clients. The most
lucrative month was around $12,000, but
it was kind of average between like $6
and $7,000.
>> I spent a lot of money, way more money
than I should have because I wanted
>> Things were going pretty well for her.
She was making money from the North
Koreans. She had a more stable living
environment.
>> I think it looks kind of good on me.
What do you guys think? Let me know.
And then her mother was given less than
a year to live and wanted to move to
Arizona. That's when things really
started to kind of come apart.
It's been another busy morning for me
and I start at 5:30 in the morning and
it's now almost noon and I'm just now
getting to eat.
So many times I wanted to throw my
phone.
They would push and push and push and
push until until I gave in.
[Music]
One of the things that they had asked me
to do in my role is to process checks
for them. and they would have me um cash
them.
[Music]
I did that with the understanding that
the people on the checks were somehow
involved with the company. These were
people that I I trusted, dumbly trusted,
but I still trusted them. They knew my
name. They knew where I lived. They knew
my phone numbers. I knew my bank
accounts.
[Music]
He would say, "Can this person use your
debit card information?" I'm like,
"Okay." But I didn't know how they were
using that.
[Music]
My name is Dawson England. I'm a
forensic accountant with the FBI.
There was some reporting from companies
that had hired individuals that traced
back to Christina Chapman and they had
alerted the FBI. We started looking as
to how we could approach the case. Her
address ended up being tied to jobs
being held in other people's names. And
so we issued some subpoenas. We started
looking at shipping records. Some of the
shipping records was showing that she
was shipping some of the laptops into
China quite a bit. There's a small city
in China called Dandong. It's right
across from North Korea. Uses North
Korea's access point. We had the
shipping records to know there was
definitely quite a bit coming in, but it
was more than we anticipated. We also
started looking into her financial
statements. We started noticing that
checks were being deposited into her
account that were not in her name. And
so we were curious, what did she know?
And who are these individuals?
[Music]
The first time I felt like something
wasn't quite right. I had gone online
and like can US companies employ foreign
workers in foreign countries and Google
was like yeah that's fine. You know I
contacted a lawyer and I asked some
basic questions. I was basically told by
this lawyer that it's a gray area. It's
not legal. It's not illegal. At that
point I still didn't know if what I was
doing was okay or wasn't okay. I didn't
really start questioning it until a
couple of conversations that I had with
a couple of the guys where um one of
them said that he had no idea who the
guy was, whose name he had been using.
And I'm just like, what do you mean you
don't know? And then another guy said I
didn't have to worry about him cuz his
identity was completely made up. And I'm
just like, what are you talking about?
At that point, I I don't know how many
checks I had processed for them, but I
stopped. Like, I would yell at them
like, "Don't have me doing things that
you guys know is illegal.
[Music]
A lot of times I felt almost like I was
a slave to them. They didn't care if I
needed to eat. They didn't care if I
needed to sleep.
When
my mom first went into the hospital,
I had told all the guys that my mom was
in her last couple days and I wanted to
stay with her. And um one of the guys
was like, "You need to get home and do
this thing for me."
On the day she actually passed, which
was April 20th at 2:22 or 2:21 in the
morning, I had a group chat with the guy
so I could message him all at once. and
I told them that she passed away and I
would probably be late.
A lot of them didn't bother to check the
group chat. They didn't care what I had
to say. And so even before I left the
hospital, they were I was already
getting messages yelling at me that they
were going to be late for their job. And
some of some of them made me apologize
for being late.
[Applause]
[Music]
Howdy people. So today I think is day
seven and I did not make my own
breakfast this morning. My clients are
going crazy. So I just got a smoothie
bowl. Um it's an onai smoothie bowl.
>> We were aware of the social media and we
did see some videos that were of
concern.
>> You can see she kind of flashed over at
the laptops real quick.
>> See him in the background throughout the
shot.
>> Penny Colada.
>> She's in her working office and she's
looking around. she has a phone and all
of a sudden you see kind of flash over
the screen shelves of laptops. Uh I
think we counted at least 10 or 12
laptops in that one shot where she just
happened to turn and we said, "Okay, we
know what we're dealing with here.
When we got to the house, the agents go
in with weapons drawn. We found them.
She had left in the middle of the night.
We were still trying to conduct our
investigation. We didn't feel like we
had enough. So, we walked through the
rooms. There was one room that was just
shelving and laptops.
There's like 30 or so laptops that are
open and seemingly actively operating.
But then you start looking around in the
room and there's just stacks. So there'd
be a stack of like five or 10 laptops
that are closed and just sitting in the
corner of a room and then you go over
here and there's oh there's a package
that hasn't quite been opened all the
way yet and you look and there's another
laptop and there's just they were
everywhere.
You could see the post-it notes on the
computers. So it would have the US
stolen identity victim's name on there
and then it would have the company name.
Sometimes she'd even put a password. And
so it was kind of the very vital
information that you would need. It was
helpful to the investigation as we went
forward.
>> I was in California.
I was there following the J-pop group
that I like
when I got a message saying that the FBI
was at my house. I was just like, "Why
is the FBI at my house?" Um, I didn't
really understand it. I had contacted my
boss. as I'm like, "Okay, the FBI's at
my house. What is going on?" And one of
his first reactions was, "Delete
everything on your phone." I was floored
and I felt sick to my stomach. The other
guys that I had worked with started
blaming me, telling me that you knew
this was coming. I'm like, "What are you
talking about?" And then they told me to
stop using Skype and to download
Telegram.
I still didn't completely understand
everything that was going on.
After we executed the search warrant on
Christina Chapman's residence, we looked
into the evidence and we decided we need
to bring in the IRS criminal
investigation unit.
IRS criminal investigation's role in
national security threats. We're part of
the counter intelligence task force and
we're really good at following the
money.
The FBI had already conducted search
warrants at Miss Chapman's residence.
They had already obtained troves of
laptops and what they wanted to do is
quantify a loss. And quickly I got to
work. In this case, Chapman and her
group were using actual US citizens tax
identifying information, social security
numbers, dates of birth, names.
We had roughly 70 victims that we
identified and reached out to. Several
of them their identity would be used
dozens of times. They're getting these
statements that they now owe $500,000 in
tax. And a few of them were shocked.
They didn't know, you know, oh my gosh,
my identity was stolen and somebody out
there is trying to be me. It's a long
process with helping trying to clear
your name. Shortly after the indictment,
we start preparing for an arrest. Most
IRS criminal investigations were
involved in can go years. This one was
pretty quick.
Couple weeks later, we actually did the
arrest.
>> Christina Marie Chapman was recently
arrested in Lichfield Park and indicted
in a series of complex identity theft
cases that have been generating money
for the North Korean government.
According to the federal indictment,
Christina Chapman was working out of her
house in Lichfield Park. Someone
approached her on LinkedIn asking her to
be the US face of their company. What
that meant was getting paid to run with
the FBI.
>> I was in the house. I heard my name
being called
and I walked out front and there were
FBI cars everywhere.
They said that I was being arrested.
They took me into CCA in Florence,
Arizona, and processed me.
And then I was in a holding cell, very
cold holding cell until um I guess it's
called an arraignment in front of the
judge. He's the first person who
actually mentioned North Korea and the
possibility of North Korean spies. And I
started balling.
I was born in South Korea.
South Korea is important to me. North
Korea is not.
I'm not the girl who's ever dreamed of
being part of an international spiring
or whatever it is.
[Music]
Okay, so this came in last night. This
is how much time the government is
asking for your sentence to be.
[Music]
They're looking at the maximum.
The Brazilian chicken and limit
flight.
[Music]
>> I've already had lots of people send me
DMs on Tik Tok that have been following
the case, calling me a traitor and um
saying that I would be better off dead
and lots of other things.
I'm also going into this at age 50. So,
uh, having never been in trouble in any
significant way in the past, know that
scares me.
But I know that somebody has to pay for
it.
Arizona resident Christina Chapman takes
what may be one of the longest walks of
her life. She's going to court for
sentencing after pleading guilty to
criminal charges including wire fraud
and identity theft.
>> Do you have any message for North Korea?
>> What are you expecting today?
>> Hi.
All right, let's go in here.
So today, a Christina Chapman of Arizona
was sentenced to 102 months of
imprisonment for conspiring with North
Koreans to infiltrate US companies,
including Fortune 500 companies, with
the goal of creating revenue to send to
North Korea for their munitions
development.
I think that the offense by Christina
Chapman was so intentional and it was so
egregious that there was no room for
mercy in a case like this. We're talking
not just about a fraud. We're talking
about national security. We're talking
about North Korea that is an enemy of
the United States that is seeking to
build its munitions and uh deployment so
that they can then use that against the
United States. Uh this is a very serious
case and it's not just someone who just
kind of crossed a line. She crossed a
major line and we believe that the
sentence in this case was appropriate
given the egregiousness of the crime.
Well, I it could have went worse. We
agreed to a range of 94 to 111 months
and the judge gave her 102 months.
I just the way they characterize things
is um disheartening because they know
that she's a poor woman with mental
health struggles and that she's never
had anything and that she's also not
some criminal mastermind who's, you
know, involved in a sophisticated
scheme. Like I said in my sentencing
remarks, she's a pawn. She's
insignificant and she's easily
replaceable and obviously she's going to
have to deal with this uh for the rest
of her life.
I don't think justice was done today,
but I often walk away from this building
feeling that way.
>> Now, wait a minute. Now, I understand
that she is saying she didn't know
anything about it.
>> She's claiming that she knew that they
were overseas workers but didn't know
they were
>> full of and I want to say something. Her
own messages make it clear that she knew
she was working for enemies of the
United States. Example, I just found out
from a lawyer July 1. I can get in some
serious legal trouble for doing this.
620. I can go to federal prison for
falsifying federal documents. I don't
buy this innocence. Her own words that
deep sex her.
[Music]
There are companies at this very moment
in the United States who have North
Koreans working for them and they don't
realize it. And there are schemes
identical to the one that Christina
Chapman was involved with that involve
different facilitators who may or may
not realize that they're helping North
Koreans. And those facilitators are
hosting laptops in their apartments, in
their homes as we speak right now.
>> We still have a hard time grasping the
problem. We are the United States of
America. We're supposed to know what
we're doing.
>> Collaboration and communication is is
key. Getting public and private sector
on the same page addressing the problem.
>> And it is a very simple thing for
American companies to start checking on
who is working for them. They've got to
make sure that if they have remote
workers, are they really remote American
workers? Are they working in the United
States? Are they who they say they are?
are we are playing catch-up. These guys
are chess pieces set up all over the
world. It's on us to find that defensive
countermeasure and continue to play the
chess game.
[Music]
>> This call is from Christina Chan.
>> There's a lot of grief when it comes to
losing your freedom. The freedom to
choose when you're going to eat, when
you're going to wake up, when you're
going to sleep. And I think that's part
of the reason why I'm I'm still sort of
in in shock.
To the people that were hurt, I am
incredibly sorry. I feel horrifically
bad for them. And that's probably the
part of all of this that gives me the
most shame.
That shame and that guilt I will feel
the rest of my life.
[Music]
Heat.